So we get the sign-up logic added on the back-end,
let's go back to the front-end an add it there too. For that,
I'll go to my sign-up component and by the way, these errors here seem just to be a bug of the Angular's CLI, it's
a display bug, nothing's wrong.
So let's go back to the sign-up component and in on sign-up,
I now want to send a request to the back-end to create a new user. Now that screams for a new service,
so directly in the auth folder, I'll add my auth.service.ts file and there, I'll export a class, AuthService
and I will add @injectable here, which I have to import from the Angular package,
so import injectable from @angular/core like this and I will then add curly braces here
and just as in my posts service, I will set providedIn to root,
so I'll just copy that line and add it here.
Now in the AuthService, I want to do a couple of things but I want to start simple and simply send the
request to create a new user.
So here I will call or I will add a new method,
createUser and this method will accept an e-mail which is a string and a password which is a string
and here, I then want to send a HTTP request.
Now you'll know what this means, we need to inject something, so I will add a constructor and the something I want
to inject is my HTTP client,
so I'll bind it to a private property, HTTP client
and again, just like in the post service where I also did this, I need to import that from @angular/common/http
.
So we can also copy that link here, that import, add it at the top too, import the HTTP client and then use it
and that should be @angular/core.
So now we get the HTTP client successfully injected and imported, now here in create user,
we want to send the request.
So we will use the client to send a post request because what we created here on the back-end accepts
post requests here
and that request should go to our local domain /api/user and then /signup.
So back in the auth service, post is going to our URL here, http://www.localhost:3000/api
so let's just copy that and then /user/signup.
Now for signing up,
I of course also need to append some data to that request and for that, I'll actually create a new model,
my auth-data.model. There I will export an interface to define how my authentication data should look like
and I'll name it AuthData and my AuthData will be an e-mail which is a string and a password which is
a string.
Now we could also create a user model here but a user actually should not all the time have the password
attached to it on the front-end,
I don't want to store the password on the front-end anywhere for too long,
therefore I will use that AuthData for submitting the data to the back-end
and if we later need a user which we do, then I will add a separate model.
So for the AuthService, I can now create a new object based on that AuthData model. So I'll create a new
constant, authData which will be of type AuthData
and of course that means I need to import that type, that interface in the same folder from AuthData
model,
that's the file name.
Now that I have that imported, I can create a new object and that object needs to have an e-mail which
is the e-mail I'm getting as an argument and it needs to have a password
which of course is the password I'm getting as an argument,
simple as that.
Now it's that authData which I append to the request
and now we can subscribe to it.
We'll get back to the result or the response and for now, let's simply log it so that we can have
a look inside of it so that we can see what we're getting back.
That was a lot of work,
now the last thing is of course to connect that auth service to our sign-up component.
We're already providing it on a root level, so all that's left to be done is we need to inject that here.
So let's add a constructor to the sign-up component,
bind it to a public property, auth service of type auth service which needs to be imported from your auth
service file, so make sure to add this import at the top and then here in on sign-up,
I will actually,
well send that request.
First of all I want to make sure that we got an e-mail and a password, so we'll check whether form is invalid
in which case I will just return here
but otherwise if it's not invalid,
well then I will simply run this auth service createUser and send form
value e-mail as an e-mail value and form value password, well as the password
and with that all saved, let's go back. Now submitting the empty form doesn't work and let's enter some
data here like test2@test.com with a password of your choice and get back a result here which
looks good. In that result,
we also see the hashed password,
now we'll strip that out to
not always return it but for now, it's fine.
We see the e-mail which was saved and that the user received an ID, now if I tried to send that request
again,
keep in mind the e-mail address is now already taken,
I get an error correctly and there, we get an error with an error object,
that's our response and there with a message, user validation failed, e-mail error, expected e-mail to
be unique.
So we get an error here which indicates, well that it went wrong and that of course is what we want
because this prevents us from accidentally saving the same user twice.
So now we've got a way of creating new users,
the next step of course is to take advantage of this and being able to log users in and then also kind
of take that knowledge that they are logged in and enable them to create posts and on the other hand,
we want to make sure they can't if they're not.